\documentclass[../main.tex]{subfiles}

\begin{document}
With the recent surge in privacy concerns, employing
SSL/TLS~\cite{sslrfc,sslbook} to secure communications in the middle
of the network has become common place. SSL/TLS offers guarantees of
confidentiality and integrity, provided that a private key's secrecy
is maintained. Yet, SSL/TLS was designed assuming that its user trusts
the hardware and OS of the machine on which the key is held.
 
While this assumption is perfectly valid in the case where a person is
running an SSL/TLS-enabled service on their own machines, many web
applications are now hosted by third party cloud service providers
such as Amazon Web Services, Heroku, Digital Ocean \&c. Moreover, to
offer SSL/TLS, the private key must also be stored with the web
application on these service providers' machines. This implies that a
server administrator using the aforementioned services is trusting the
cloud-provider, including any personnel with physical/administrative
access to the machines, the hypervisor, and the underlying OS to
maintain the secrecy of the sensitive key material. Such a wide trust
surface makes it difficult to maintain the privacy of critical
secrets.

Consider a case where the cloud provider is not malicious; a
vulnerability within their platform could lead to leaking the private
key if exploited by an adversary. Moreover, if the cloud provider is
indeed malicious, they could simply read the private key from the hard
disk, assuming the key is not encrypted, or mount some form of memory
sniffing attack to read the key from the web server process's
adddres space since data in RAM is not encrypted. A compromised private key
allows an adversary to do the following:
\begin{itemize}
  \item Decrypt past, stored communication between the web server and a
    client (assuming a cipher suite that does not provide perfect forward
    secrecy is in use)
  \item Decrypt any ongoing communication between the web server and a
    client
  \item Masquerade as the server and fool a client into disclosing
    sensitive information such as passwords, credit card numbers, etc.
\end{itemize}
In all cases, a compromised key voids the confidentiality and integrity
guarantees of SSL/TLS.

Clearly, implicitly trusting a cloud-provider and the OS with
sensitive key material poses a considerable security risk. Yet, this
premise of trust is usually the case when server administrators deploy
web applications via cloud based services. Our project aims to break
this assumption by refactoring legacy web servers to secure the long
term private key in the face of: (1) An adversary who is capable of
exploiting the server application, (2) a malicious cloud provider, and
(3) an adversary with an exploit for the underlying operating system
and/or hypervisor. In designing our system we use the principle of
least privilege along with a recently released technology from
\Intel~called Software Guard Extensions (SGX), both of which are
described in Section~\ref{sec:background}. Additionally, while we
expect our design to penalise the performance of a legacy web server
(due to the overhead added by SGX and the paritioning we introduce to
isolate the long-term private key), we aimed to minimise the
degradation in throughput.

The remainder of this report is divided as follows:
Section~\ref{sec:background} provides a detailed overview of previous
solutions to the problem outlined here, and technologies underlying
our project. Section~\ref{sec:design} discusses two possible designs
for our system, one where we only secure the long-term private key and
another where we also secure the symmetric session keys.
Section~\ref{sec:implementation} highlights implementation
considerations in realising the system that we designed.
Section~\ref{sec:perfeval} presents the evaluation we have conducted
of the system. Section~\ref{sec:projectmgmt} details the managerial
aspects of this project. Finally, section~\ref{sec:flconclusion}
offers areas where this project could be improved, and concludes this
report.
	
\end{document}

%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "../main"
%%% End:
